The ESP32-S2 and the TFT seemed like overkill for this project, and I had a bunch of 
[Older ESP8266 boards around](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-feather-huzzah-esp8266), so I figured I'd try one of them out.

I also wanted to play with [esphome](https://esphome.io/). I was already pushing the data from the sensor to Home Assistant via MQTT. Why not integrate directly?

### Installing esphome

I blundered around with this a bit. It turns out the Feather Huzzah 8266 board I was using needed a [serial driver](https://www.silabs.com/developers/usb-to-uart-bridge-vcp-drivers) (which [Adafruit's excellent guide mentions](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-feather-huzzah-esp8266/using-nodemcu-lua)). Even with that, I found the esphome docs confusing. Their site is organized around each integration, and doesn't have a lot of big-picture information. I spent the longest time wondering "why would I actually want to use esphome?"

What I ended up doing that worked well: 
1. Make a directory/repo for esphome configs 
2. `python3 -m pip install virtualenv`
3. `python3 -m virtualenv venv`
4. `source venv/bin/activate`
5. `pip install wheel esphome`
6. `esphome dashboard .`
Use the web interface at http://localhost:6052 to add a new device. Note: wants to be done in Chrome for WASM access to the serial port.

> Lesson Learned: That conveniently short USB micro cable that you have lying around? Might be power only because it came with a knockoff camera battery charger. When you plug the board into the Mac, it should prompt you whether to allow the accessory to connect. If it doesn't, try a different cable.

2023-07-23

Put my esphome build on a Huzzah, went to plug it in... realized that the fact that I used the _reverse_ TFT feather for V1 means that the headers need to go on the _other_ side of the board. Luckily, I have a bunch of Huzzahs, so I soldered one up reversed.

Got it all set up. The Dallas 1-wire support finds the sensors with no problem. Reports data to Home Assistant nicely. 

### Navigation
* [README](README.md)
* [2023-07-23 ESP8266 esphome](2023-07-23%20ESP8266%20esphome.md)
* [2023-07-29 Power Problems](2023-07-29%20Power%20Problems.md)
* [2023-07-30 Deep Sleep](2023-07-30%20Deep%20Sleep.md)
* [2023-07-31 MQTT](2023-07-31%20MQTT.md)
* [2023-08-01 Tweaks](2023-08-01%20Tweaks.md)
* [2023-09-29 Power strangeness](2023-09-29%20Power%20strangeness.md)

